[Music]
hiya i'm finally doing it if you're new
here my name's elizabeth i'm a medical
student and an artist living
in london and ever since i started this
youtube channel
one of the things that i most wanted to
do and was
simultaneously the most terrified to do
is
talk about art and you will see exactly
why
in this video i am very passionate about
art but i do recognize that i have quite
weird interpretations of what art means
to me
so although this video will definitely
not be for everyone
i do hope that if you watch it you can
kind of understand
where i'm coming from and maybe even
find anything that i say
in here helpful so let's get started
the painting i'm going to talk about
today is one of my personal favorites
i made it in 2017 and it
is the birth of venus by
i want to say bouchard but i'm not sure
how to pronounce that
um but yeah so this is what i'll be
discussing whenever i pick paintings to
make and to keep in my home i try to
pick ones that have messages that are
very significant to me
and this painting has so many layers of
significance
it is one of my absolute favorites the
painting itself depicts the birth of
venus
which is the roman equivalent of the
greek goddess aphrodite and basically
just the moment of her birth and the
celebration that
ensued message that i get from this
painting is
that we do with sometimes treating the
people
that we love like babies and
please let me explain in this painting
we see that venus has just been born and
she clearly looks like an adult however
she is technically
just a baby and a newborn for example if
i were to have a baby
and at 2am in the morning they were to
suddenly start
crying at the top of their lungs what i
am likely to think is that perhaps they
haven't been fed enough and they want to
eat
or perhaps they need changing or perhaps
they haven't slept too well or perhaps
they have a fever i'm very unlikely to
take this behavior personally
and to think oh my god do they just want
to wake me up they want to ruin my life
what have i done wrong why are they
doing this to me however
when it comes to adults and if someone
is to be
seemingly for no reason quite snappy or
rude towards me
i am much more likely to think that why
do they hate me why do they treat me
this way this is so wrong
rather than to think that maybe they
just had a bad day at work
or maybe they too are also hungry or
maybe they are just not feeling well and
this has absolutely nothing to do with
me
now even though i am not condoning rude
behavior i feel
very very strongly that we should be
kind almost at all times also there may
be cases that some people just
do want to make us feel bad when it
comes to the people that we love our
close friends and family
i think that i am safe in assuming that
they never actually wish me harm
and any bad behavior on their part is
more likely a reflection
of those childish needs that are not
being met
rather than a personal attack on me as a
human being
or a desire to ruin my life so for the
last few years i have been trying to
approach
this sort of behavior towards my friends
and family i
genuinely feel as though it has
positively transformed our interactions
i feel as though there's a lot more
kindness
and benefit of the doubt and when
someone acts in a bit of a rash way i
tried to make my first reaction to be
what kind of nice food can i give them
and how must they be feeling right now
and subtly take the conversation perhaps
into how their day has gone and how
they're feeling with their course or
um their job rather than to sulk and be
upset and be deeply hurt in thinking
that they want to personally offend me
so looking at this every single day i
see venus who is an adult
but also a baby and a child and it
reminds me that deep down
i think we all are babies in many many
ways
and we sometimes do act like them which
is not the worst thing in the world but
is something that i like to remember the
next weird thing that this painting
represents to me
is the idea of living our life like the
ancient greeks as far as i know
in certain times and places in ancient
greece men lived quite
structured lives in the sense that they
were born and they had their child phase
and then they were sent to the army for
training and then they would become
soldiers
and then they would come back home and
they would create their families
they might be merchants or businessmen
and perhaps if they were to live long
enough they might even become
philosophers
so they did not have one single
profession
or one single identity but throughout
different stages in their life
they were doing different things and
this was very much
accepted and expected from their side
now this helps me a lot because i think
the ancient greek
vibes in this painting remind me that
you don't need to lead a linear life i
know career decision that i make is
likely to be permanent i can
very likely have whatever i want it
might not look like what i dreamed it to
be
but it definitely can happen so it kind
of also reminds me to keep my eyes open
because passions are there it's not just
the passions that i
randomly had as a child but i might pick
them up
across my life too i might suddenly
become interested in something new like
philosophy for example
and that's something that i can
integrate immediately or plan to
integrate in my future life
and this reminds me that the ancient
greeks did not set their careers in
stone
and that i perhaps should keep an open
mind towards
what my future might look like the next
things that this painting represents to
me is
of course the idea of rebirth now
this is a topic where i'm not sure i
have good opinions on
and i still feel the need to explore it
a lot more
i think that there are certain cases
wherein some form
of turning a blank page and
not being defined by things that you
have done have or have been done to you
in the past is very valuable and lastly
venus or aphrodite
is the goddess of beauty as a girl that
in her very
short time in this universe has spent a
lot of it in
science i have found myself in
situations wherein
i felt almost dismissed judged or guilty
for embracing my feminine side i know it
sounds ridiculous but
i feel that it helps me that this
painting almost gives me permission
to want to be feminine and to embrace my
feminine side
which is something that i definitely
need reminding of
so yes it also represents that least
significant reason
that this painting is important to me is
that when i was younger i was
very obsessed with greek mythology i saw
the themes in fictional books such as
harry potter and eragon and i always
like to go to the original sources of
things so that was my stepping stone
towards greek mythology which then
consumed a very large part of my
childhood i hope i put across somehow
the way that i approach art
in that it has so much value in the
messages that it can give us
and it's not just the beauty and
hopefully my painting is beautiful it's
not just the beauty of colors on a
canvas
but it is messages and stories and
reminders and
reinforcement of the values that i want
to hold
and therefore i find them so important
and
inspiring in this house i keep this
painting near my door and every time i
leave
i remind myself to to be a bit kinder
and be a bit more open-minded and be a
bit more accepting of myself and other
people
and therefore i absolutely love it i do
genuinely hope that if you made it this
far you did not find
this video too weird thank you so much
for spending this time with me
i genuinely hope you are very very happy
be kind to yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think
thanks bye
you